---
date: 2022-10-10
title: 2022-10-10
---

# 2022-10-10

I want to restore my old notes repository as my personal website.

- Convert repo from Gliki to Jekyll
  - Disable .travis.yml (disables Gliki)
  - Install ruby/jekyll
  - Build site as-is with Jekyll: https://jekyllrb.com/
- Switch repo names
  - https://docs.github.com/en/pages

Uh, I just want to install Jekyll,
but now I have to deal with programming environments, etc.

I spent time googling what the latest version manager was and I was overwhelmed.
I found this article which which was a little clearer than others about suggestions.
I've used rvm and rbenv in the past.
I decedied to use asdf: https://asdf-vm.com/

```bash

# install asdf: https://asdf-vm.com/guide/getting-started.html
homebrew install asdf 

# Add asdf.sh to your ~/.zshrc
echo -e "\n. $(brew --prefix asdf)/libexec/asdf.sh" >> ${ZDOTDIR:-~}/.zshrc

# reload shell
source ~/.zshrc

# install plugin
asdf plugin add ruby

# install ruby
# use same version as Github pages: https://pages.github.com/versions/
asdf install ruby 2.7.4

# set local ruby
asdf local ruby 2.7.4

# reload shell again
source ~/.zshrc

# check version
asdf current

# install github pages deps (jekyll, etc)
gem install github-pages

# reload shell
source ~/.zshrc

# create jekyll project in pre-existing markdown dir
jekyll new . --force

# check current example
jekyll serve --incremental --watch
```

- Restore .gitingore
- Disable theme in index.md
- Delete sample in _posts/
- Delete about.md

So now I have a very simple page, index.md.
I changed it to HTML.
Note that you YAML front-matter for Jekyll to process it, else it will stay vanilla HTML.

You don't need to use `_posts`.
They are just a built-in _collection_: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/collections/
Unfortunately, it seems folders do need preceeding underscore.
I will be creating my own collections.

It seems I can't avoid moving all my notes into their own directory.
What I definitely want to avoid is touching each file again to add front matter.
I could either use a plugin, e.g. https://github.com/benbalter/jekyll-optional-front-matter,
or I can just programtically add the front matter to the top of each file.
If I use the plugin I want to be able to restrict behavior to that specific collection.

I think it's going to be easier to manip each file.
I don't want to deal with plugin that doesn't quite do what I want.
I still think it's kinda weak though.

"For each file in _notes we want to preprend file with simplest front-matter possible."

Oh no, here we go again...
I swear I've done this multiple times in past,
using a slightly different method each time.
In rare cases I've used awk, but I usually use sed,
after googling of course.
I remember to use GNU sed, which is not what is installed on a mac.
So `brew install gnu-sed`.
I used this as a reference: https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/99350/how-to-insert-text-before-the-first-line-of-a-file

Inside the notes folder:

```bash
# Prepend YAML front matter to each file
#
# ls lists items which we pipe to xargs
# execute sed for each item
# -i modifies file in-place instead of outputting to stdout
# '1i\ inserts the proceeding text at Line 1
ls | xargs -I {} gsed -i '1 i\---\n---\n' {}
```

Switching repos was easy:
- disable custom domain and pages on old repo
- rename old repo
- name new repo to hparra.github.io
- enable pages and custom domain

Note by enabling custom domain the CNAME file is automatically added to repo.

The minimal requirements are now complete.
I need to get a basic them working,
particularly to fix code snippets.
I then need to add some common HTML stuff to my default layout,
which I don't think I even have.

I'm happy to start adding things to this now.

Bonus: I found this during a google search -- https://microsoft.github.io/code-with-engineering-playbook/. I want to read this later.
