journal/2023-05-29.md, before:

# Oh Jekyll

I don't want to duplicate my personal and professional CMS efforts.
I would like to consolidate and leverage hours put into both on eachother.
This means moving my personal repo back to jekyll (for now).

## Install Jekyll

Create a `Gemfile` and run bundler and jekyll:

```sh
# create Gemfile
echo "source 'https://rubygems.org'" > Gemfile
echo "gem 'github-pages', group: :jekyll_plugins" >> Gemfile

# install gems
bundle install

# build and serve on http://127.0.0.1:4000
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

Modify `Makefile`:

```Makefile
default: install

all: install build

.PHONY: install
install:
	bundle install

.PHONY: upgrade
upgrade:
	bundle update

.PHONY: serve
serve:
	bundle exec jekyll serve --trace --livereload

.PHONY: build
build:
	JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build --trace
```

Modify `.gitignore`:

```sh
# jekyll
_site/
.jekyll-cache/
.jekyll-metadata

# sass
.sass-cache/

# bundler
.bundle/
vendor/
```

## Aside: Rename main branch to `main`

I never did this with this repo. Let's do it now.

```sh
# create main branch locally, taking the history from master
git branch -m master main

# push the new local main branch to the remote repo (GitHub) 
git push -u origin main

# switch the current HEAD to the main branch
git symbolic-ref refs/remotes/origin/HEAD refs/remotes/origin/main

# change the default branch on GitHub to main
# https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/setting-the-default-branch
#
# For me this is https://github.com/hparra/hparra.github.io/settings

# delete the master branch on the remote
git push origin --delete master
```

## Enable Github Pages

[Turn on Github Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site)

## Add _config.yaml

Copy Jekyll's [default _config.yaml](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/configuration/default/):

```sh
pbpaste > _config.yml
```

If you build and push to Github you will notice some things break because these are Jekyll's defaults, not necessarily the [defaults that Github Pages uses](https://github.com/github/pages-gem/blob/master/lib/github-pages/configuration.rb).

It's best to comment out the default config.

```yaml
# github's default configuation
# https://github.com/github/pages-gem/blob/master/lib/github-pages/configuration.rb

# plugins_dir is overridden
# whitelist is overridden
jailed: false # overridden remotely
safe: true # overridden
lsi: false # overridden 
highlighter: rogue # overridden
gist:
  noscript: false # overridden
future: true

# default theme on both Github.com and Enterprise is jekyll-theme-primer
theme: 'jekyll-theme-primer'

# Combined list of PLUGIN_WHITELIST and DEFAULT_PLUGINS with difference commented out
# https://github.com/github/pages-gem/blob/master/lib/github-pages/plugins.rb
plugins:
  # - jekyll-avatar
  - jekyll-coffeescript
  - jekyll-commonmark-ghpages
  # - jekyll-default-layout
  # - jekyll-feed
  - jekyll-gist
  - jekyll-github-metadata
  # - jekyll-include-cache
  # - jekyll-mentions
  # - jekyll-octicons
  - jekyll-optional-front-matter
  - jekyll-paginate
  - jekyll-readme-index
  # - jekyll-redirect-from
  - jekyll-relative-links
  # - jekyll-remote-theme
  # - jekyll-seo-tag
  # - jekyll-sitemap
  - jekyll-titles-from-headings
  - jemoji

# Github's default markdown settings
markdown: kramdown
kramdown:
  input: GFM
  hard_wrap: false
  gfm_quirks: paragraph_end
  math_engine: mathjax # overridden
  syntax_highlighter: rogue # overridden
  syntax_highlighter_opts:
    default_lang: plaintext
  templage: '' # overridden
```


## References

[pages-gem/github-pages.rb at master · github/pages-gem](https://github.com/github/pages-gem). null. GitHub.

[Jekyll](https://michaelcurrin.github.io/code-cookbook/recipes/make/jekyll.html). Michael Currin. Code Cookbook. Found this looking for good ol' `rake` solutions but i think staying with Makefile is way to go. Thanks Michael.

[gitignore/Jekyll.gitignore at main · github/gitignore](https://github.com/github/gitignore). null. GitHub.

[5 steps to change GitHub default branch from master to main](https://stevenmortimer.com/5-steps-to-change-github-default-branch-from-master-to-main/). Steven Mortimer. stevenmortimer.com. Thanks Steven.

[Configuring a publishing source for your GitHub Pages site - GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site). null. GitHub Docs.

[Default Configuration](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/configuration/default/). null. Jekyll • Simple, blog-aware, static sites.

[github/pages-gem: A simple Ruby Gem to bootstrap dependencies for setting up and maintaining a local Jekyll environment in sync with GitHub Pages](https://github.com/github/pages-gem). null. GitHub.

Commit message:

move non-content to .jekyll

journal/2023-05-29.md, after:

# Oh Jekyll

I don't want to duplicate my personal and professional CMS efforts.
I would like to consolidate and leverage hours put into both on eachother.
This means moving my personal repo back to jekyll (for now).

## Install Jekyll

Create a `Gemfile` and run bundler and jekyll:

```sh
# create Gemfile
echo "source 'https://rubygems.org'" > Gemfile
echo "gem 'github-pages', group: :jekyll_plugins" >> Gemfile

# install gems
bundle install

# build and serve on http://127.0.0.1:4000
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

Modify `Makefile`:

```Makefile
default: install

all: install build

.PHONY: install
install:
	bundle install

.PHONY: upgrade
upgrade:
	bundle update

.PHONY: serve
serve:
	bundle exec jekyll serve --trace --livereload

.PHONY: build
build:
	JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build --trace
```

Modify `.gitignore`:

```sh
# jekyll
_site/
.jekyll-cache/
.jekyll-metadata

# sass
.sass-cache/

# bundler
.bundle/
vendor/
```

## Aside: Rename main branch to `main`

I never did this with this repo. Let's do it now.

```sh
# create main branch locally, taking the history from master
git branch -m master main

# push the new local main branch to the remote repo (GitHub) 
git push -u origin main

# switch the current HEAD to the main branch
git symbolic-ref refs/remotes/origin/HEAD refs/remotes/origin/main

# change the default branch on GitHub to main
# https://docs.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/setting-the-default-branch
#
# For me this is https://github.com/hparra/hparra.github.io/settings

# delete the master branch on the remote
git push origin --delete master
```

## Enable Github Pages

[Turn on Github Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site)

## Add _config.yaml

Copy Jekyll's [default _config.yaml](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/configuration/default/):

```sh
pbpaste > _config.yml
```

If you build and push to Github you will notice some things break because these are Jekyll's defaults, not necessarily the [defaults that Github Pages uses](https://github.com/github/pages-gem/blob/master/lib/github-pages/configuration.rb).

It's best to comment out the default config.

```yaml
# github's default configuation
# https://github.com/github/pages-gem/blob/master/lib/github-pages/configuration.rb

# plugins_dir is overridden
# whitelist is overridden
jailed: false # overridden remotely
safe: true # overridden
lsi: false # overridden 
highlighter: rogue # overridden
gist:
  noscript: false # overridden
future: true

# default theme on both Github.com and Enterprise is jekyll-theme-primer
theme: 'jekyll-theme-primer'

# Combined list of PLUGIN_WHITELIST and DEFAULT_PLUGINS with difference commented out
# https://github.com/github/pages-gem/blob/master/lib/github-pages/plugins.rb
plugins:
  # - jekyll-avatar
  - jekyll-coffeescript
  - jekyll-commonmark-ghpages
  # - jekyll-default-layout
  # - jekyll-feed
  - jekyll-gist
  - jekyll-github-metadata
  # - jekyll-include-cache
  # - jekyll-mentions
  # - jekyll-octicons
  - jekyll-optional-front-matter
  - jekyll-paginate
  - jekyll-readme-index
  # - jekyll-redirect-from
  - jekyll-relative-links
  # - jekyll-remote-theme
  # - jekyll-seo-tag
  # - jekyll-sitemap
  - jekyll-titles-from-headings
  - jemoji

# Github's default markdown settings
markdown: kramdown
kramdown:
  input: GFM
  hard_wrap: false
  gfm_quirks: paragraph_end
  math_engine: mathjax # overridden
  syntax_highlighter: rogue # overridden
  syntax_highlighter_opts:
    default_lang: plaintext
  templage: '' # overridden
```

## Move everything to `.jekyll`

One of the things I never liked about jekyll were the folders starting with underscore.
I also didn't like those folder at my root directory.

```yaml
source: .
destination: .jekyll/_site
layouts_dir: .jekyll/layouts
data_dir: data
includes_dir: .jekyll/includes
```

While the config allow me to move and rename some of these, I still can't make another file the site root. It _seems_ `source` solves this use-case, but github overwrites this, and if you choose to build from `docs` in github settings, the expectation is that all the other jekyll-related files/folders are in there too.

## References

[pages-gem/github-pages.rb at master · github/pages-gem](https://github.com/github/pages-gem). null. GitHub.

[Jekyll](https://michaelcurrin.github.io/code-cookbook/recipes/make/jekyll.html). Michael Currin. Code Cookbook. Found this looking for good ol' `rake` solutions but i think staying with Makefile is way to go. Thanks Michael.

[gitignore/Jekyll.gitignore at main · github/gitignore](https://github.com/github/gitignore). null. GitHub.

[5 steps to change GitHub default branch from master to main](https://stevenmortimer.com/5-steps-to-change-github-default-branch-from-master-to-main/). Steven Mortimer. stevenmortimer.com. Thanks Steven.

[Configuring a publishing source for your GitHub Pages site - GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site). null. GitHub Docs.

[Default Configuration](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/configuration/default/). null. Jekyll • Simple, blog-aware, static sites.

[github/pages-gem: A simple Ruby Gem to bootstrap dependencies for setting up and maintaining a local Jekyll environment in sync with GitHub Pages](https://github.com/github/pages-gem). null. GitHub.
